Paul Llamas
December 9, 2021
Quantitative Reasoning Reflection

1.- Question 1
I decided to use the diversity of methods by planning my idea and deciding what
logics are needed. I decided to use if statements if I need the program to do
something is certain criteria are met. For example, if I want the program to
show "you lose" on the screen when the sprite was hit by the enemy, I use an if
statement that state that if the enemy collide with the character, a string of
words must be shown.
I decided to use classes because are very useful tool. They help concentrate
descriptions of apperance and behavior in a single place to later apply them to
an object. I also decided to use functions are a very useful tool too. They help
simplify the total code and to concentrate a specific action to later call it.
One example I can provide is in my final lab. In the lab, I created many classes
for enemies and coins to later apply them to objects and create them.
I also used lists because they are such an useful thing. You can use them to
store data in a specific place and later recall it. In my final lab, I used to
change rooms, enemies, coins, and textures.
In my project I also used loops. Loops are useful because they can repeat certain
action until the number implied is met or until a condition is met. In my case,
I used them with the functionality of creating the borderscreen, to place coins
and enemies with distance in between, and the platforms.

2.- Question 2
Having a friendly program is important as usually there is not only one programmer
working in a code, there is usually two or more. Therefore, having a program that
shows your logic and communicate the functionality of the part of the code is
important.

Having communicative variable names is important as it makes programming more
efficient by calling specifically what you need and avoiding the problem of
constantly identifying the variable and delaying the project. One example is calling
the variable x and its function is having the characteristics of the coins. x by
itself is not very intuitive, therefore delaying time making sure x is what you
need. coin could be a bette variable name as it is intuitive and avoids the before
problems.

Functions names are similar to the variable names before mentioned. They need to
be intuitive to be efficient. Let's suppose there is are many functions to draw
something and you name them all draw1, draw2,...drawx and all of them draw different
things. You will spend too much time checking each one of them for theone you
need. Naming those functions for what they draw would be more efficient and intuitive.

Comment are very useful because you get to communicate the function and logic of
the following code. This is very important when not working alone. By adding
comments, the code is more friendly to everyone as it communicates everything in
it and everyone can read it without much difficulty.

The code structure is also important to keep in order. An organized code is
more user-friendly and efficient. You lose less time trying to find something
because you intuitive know where is it to do the structure. Also, it is difficult
to read and understand logics if there is no order as you will not know what piece
is with others.

3.- Question 3
To test and evaluate the accuracy of my code I did many things. First, I constantly run my code to test that the logics
are correct and everything is doing what I want them to do. Another way I test and evaluate my code is by using print
statements to print the result and make sure everything is working correctly. When an error pop out, I use the run window
to check what type of error is and in what line. Once I know the type of error and where is it, I can check the logic
of the thing and solve it.
One way I used to determined that the data I was getting was correct, was to print the total and/or print each step. In
this way I know if there is an error and where. I also used the debugger on pycharm when I wanted to check in a specific
point of my code. This way I know what is running and what is not.

4.- Question 4

